GIT BASH DIRECTIONS...

pwd - displays the working directory.
ls - displays the list of files and folders in the current directory.
cd - navigates between directories in the path.
cd.. - navigates backwards, one level at a time, through the path of your directories.
mkdir - creates a new directory.
touch - creates a file inside a directory.
start - opens a file.


HOW TO SPEAK GITHUB...

Git — a tool that allows developers and others to use version control

GitHub — one of many web interfaces for using Git

Organization (org) — a grouping mechanism allowing teams to collaborate across many projects at once

Repository (repo) — a folder in which all files and their version histories are stored

Branch — a version of the repo that allows work without affecting other branches. Repos may have many branches for different possible changes being tested or considered, along with a default branch that serves as the source of truth.

Fork — a new repository that inherits from a parent “upstream” repo. It is used to suggest changes to an “upstream” public repo by someone who doesn’t have access to edit in the repo’s home org.

Markdown (.md) — a way to write content that converts plain text to formatted text.

Commit Changes — a saved record of a change made to a file within the repo.

Pull Request (PR) — a request for changes made to a branch to be pulled into another branch. Allows multiple users to see, discuss and review work being suggested.

Merge — after a pull request is approved, the commit will be pulled in (or merged) from one branch to another and then, deployed on the live site

Issues — allow users to report issues or bugs and track progress of assigning the fix for the issues.

Federalist — a platform that securely deploys a website from a GitHub repository in minutes and lets users preview proposed and published changes.

Projects — allows you to use GitHub for project management and tracking a set of issues, either for a specific repo or an entire org

Wiki — a section of a repo made for hosting documentation. Documentation may be in the repo’s README files instead.